# Isabel Del Mastro's Final Project Pitch

I read an article recently that CSI Aviation had secured over [$1.2 billion](https://www.ch-aviation.com/news/163660-uss-csi-aviation-secures-over-12bn-in-ice-contracts) in ICE contracts this year. CSI Aviation is a comprehensive global aviation services company that the DHS awarded millions of dollars to last november "FOR ENFORCEMENT AND REMOVAL OPERATIONS UNDER THE ICE AIR PROGRAM," according to the [USA Spending database.](https://www.usaspending.gov/search?hash=57346778951ecb9cd1f050d5b62aefa9) I started to wonder: how many aircraft does CSI Aviation own, how many are used for the purposes of deportation, and how many subcontractors under CSI aviation have flights registered under the FAA? 

I found a [master dataset](https://www.faa.gov/licenses_certificates/aircraft_certification/aircraft_registry/releasable_aircraft_download)  that details records of all U.S. Civil Aircraft maintained by the FAA. I am going to synthesize this data set to track all of the aircraft owned and registered by ICE contractors and subcontractors (CSI Aviation, Global Crossing Airlines, Eastern Air Express) from the last five years, documenting the N-number, date it was registered, and company that registered it. If I find that agregating this data is is too ambitious, I may focus on the last two years. Then, I will document flight departures and arrivals for as many aircraft as I can using a flight log tracker like ADS-B or Open Sky. 

With this data, I would like to explore the number of aircraft frequently flying to and from countries where ICE is deporting immigrants. I believe that with a little more research, I can also determine with some level of accuracy the number of flights used for deportations by known ICE Aviation Subcontractors. I would like to compare this data across the past five years in hopes I can give an accurate numerical growth to:
  A) the number of aircraft that known ICE aviation contractors and subcontractors are flying to and from countries that immigrants are deported to.
  B) The number of aircraft used for deportations by known ICE aviation contractors and subcontractors.

  Discovering A) will be easier than discovering B), as it will be difficult to discern definitively which aircraft are used for deportation purposes. However, I believe that after testing my hypothesis, I will find a quantifiable increase of aircraft owned by known ICE aviation contractors and subcontractors traveling to and from countries where immigrants are being deported. 
